NATIONAL COMPETENCY BASED TEACHER STANDARD

What is NCBTS?

The NATIONAL COMPETENCY BASED TEACHER STANDARD is an integrated theoretical framework that defines the different dimensions of effective teaching, where effective teaching means being able to help all types of students learn the different learning goals in the curriculum.

It is a framework that defines effective teaching and provides guidance for teacher development.

Who should use the NCBTS?

-Teacher education institutions

-The PRC
its designing the licensure examination for teachers

-Organizations and agencies that implement in-service education for teachers (INSET)

-Award-giving bodies

-The DepEd
The depEd and formulating it's hiring and pollution and importantly

-Individual teachers in all public elementary and high school all over the country

The NCBTS Framework is divided in 7 Domains:

1. Social Regard for Learning (SRFL)

2. Learning Environment (LE)

3. Diversity of Learners (DOL)

4. Curriculum (Curr.)

5. Planning, Assessing Reporting (PAR)

6. Community Linkages (CL)

7. Personal Growth & Professional Development (PGPD)
You sent


Domain 1. Social Regard for Learning (SRFL)

The SRFL domain focuses on the idea that teachers serve as positive and powerful role models of value in the pursuit of different efforts to learn. The teacher's action, statements, and different types of social interactions with students exemplify this ideal.

It focuses on teachers being positive role models for learning and creating a safe and welcoming environment for students

Domain 2. Learning Environment (LE)

This domain focuses on importance of providing a social, psychological and physical environment within which all students, regardless of their individual differences in learning, can engage in the different learning activities and work towards attaining high standards of learning

Learning environments should provide a safe and conducive space for learning.

Domain 3. Diversity of Learners (DOL)

The DOL domain emphasizes the ideal that teachers can facilitate the learning process even with diverse learners, by recognizing and respecting individual differences and by using knowledge about their differences to design diverse sets of learning activities to ensure that all learners can attain the desired learning goals.

students hailing from a wide variety of backgrounds and experiences.



